The February TIOBE Index of the most popular programming lan
guages is out, and while the work going on in the background
 of TIOBE calculations has changed, not much has shifted in 
the way of rankings.
Python continues to sit atop the index,
 with C and Java directly behind it. In Feb. 2021, those thr
ee also occupied the top spot, but with Python in the number
 three position, C at top, and Java in second place.
Beyond 
the top three, there hasn‚Äôt been much movement in the inde
x, with positions four through eight unchanged from the same
 time last year. Those slots are occupied, respectively, by 
C++, C#, Visual Basic, JavaScript and PHP. Positions nine an
d 10 swapped from Feb. 21 to now, with Assembly Language and
 SQL now occupying each other‚Äôs positions.
The one big mov
e of note between Feb. 2021 and Feb. 2022 was with the Groov
y programming language, an object-oriented language for Java
. Over the course of the year, Groovy fell from 12th positio
n all the way to 20th, putting it perilously close to the ‚Ä
úother programming languages‚Äù list.
TIOBE CEO Paul Jansen 
attributes Groovy‚Äôs decline to the growth in the CI/CD spa
ce. Groovy was the only language used for writing scripts on
 Jenkins, which Jansen describes as having been ‚Äúthe only 
real player in the CI/CD domain‚Äù early on. Now, with platf
orms that don‚Äôt require Groovy, like GitHub, Azure DevOps 
and GitLab, Groovy is losing its place at the table.
‚ÄúGroo
vy could have grown further because it was the major script-
based alternative for Java running on the same JVM. However,
 Kotlin is taking over that position right now, so I think G
roovy will have a hard time,‚Äù Jensen said.
The TIOBE index
 may not be full of surprises this month, but Jansen did hav
e a lot to say about the index itself this month, as this is
 the first time it has been compiled using Similarweb‚Äôs tr
affic analysis platform instead of Alexa.
‚ÄúWe have used Si
milarweb for the first time this month to select search engi
nes and fortunately, there are no big changes in the index d
ue to this swap. The only striking difference is that the to
p 3 languages, Python, C, and Java, all gained more than 1 p
ercent in the rankings,‚Äù Jansen said.
TIOBE decided to mak
e the switch this month after Amazon‚Äôs announcement in Dec
ember 2021 that it was shutting the Alexa web ranking servic
e down, effective May 1, 2022, ending 25 years of the progra
m.
Jansen noted that not every website has been onboarded, b
ut that the switch to Similarweb included a switch to using 
HtmlUnit, a non-GUI web browser with APIs that let Java apps
 invoke pages, fill forms and do other standard web browsing
 activity. This switch will eventually allow TIOBE to includ
e websites it was unable to crawl before, like Stackoverflfo
1w and Github, which could have a larger impact on scores.
1